What is a “version control system”? 

Version control systems are a category of software tools that helps in recording changes made to files by keeping a track of modifications done in the code. 

Why Version Control system is so Important?

As we know that a software product is developed in collaboration by a group of developers they might be located at different locations and each one of them contributes to some specific kind of functionality/features. So in order to contribute to the product, they made modifications to the source code(either by adding or removing). A version control system is a kind of software that helps the developer team to efficiently communicate and manage(track) all the changes that have been made to the source code along with the information like who made and what changes have been made. A separate branch is created for every contributor who made the changes and the changes aren’t merged into the original source code unless all are analyzed as soon as the changes are green signaled they merged to the main source code. It not only keeps source code organized but also improves productivity by making the development process smooth.

What is Git
Git is a Version Control System or VCS. VCS is basically software designed to record changes within one or more files over time. It allows us to undo or to cancel all made or pending changes within one or more files. If we're working on a project with many files, VCS enables us to control the whole project. If necessary, this allows us to revert one or more files any of their previous versions or the whole project to a previous version. We can also compare changes to one file between two versions in order to see exactly what was changed in each file, when it was changed and who made the change. We can also see why the change was made.

Why am I mentioning files instead of code? Because Git is a universal system that can be used for version control of all types of files, be it Microsoft Word files, pictures, AutoCAD files, Visual Studio Project, etc.

Types of VCS
Git is not the only VCS in use. Moreover, Git is just a kind of VCS.

The types of VCS are:

Local Version Control System
Centralized Version Control System
Distributed Version Control System
Local Version Control System